# Artist Statement

Write your artist statement in this file (max 1000 words).

1. How I interpret the theme
For the theme of listening in/listening out, I try to explore how people could interact with what they hear in my project. However, as a visual art work, people must focus more on their view. I try to explore how people could focus more on what they hear rather than what they see. I got an inspiration from the life of blind people. Blind people cannot see the world, but their auditory sense would be much more sensitive than other people. Therefore, when people got blind they will focus more on what they hear, and the purpose of my project is to provide viewer an experience of blind trip. When viewers are interacting with my art work, they will feel hard to see stuffs, but more sensitive to the sound. 

2. Where I got inspirations
When I was thinking how to present the view in the mind of blind people, I did some researches and got inspirations from them. I found some art works by George Redhawk, who is a partially blind artist. All stuffs in his art works are moving smoothly like flowing water, and they present the view in his mind. Therefore, in my project, I create unclear views by drawing something moving or changing (e.g. stairs, text on sign) to present the view in the mind of blind people. Besides, in the works by George Redhawk, the colour of the objects are all wired and totally different from that in the real world. This inspired me that the colour of view in the mind of blind people could be different from the real world, so I used exaggerated colour for some objects like the buildings on the street in my project.  

3. How I structure the experience 
From begging to end of this blind trip, viewers are expected to have feelings of curious, frustrated, dangerous, helpless, and hopeful: curious about the view in the mind of blind people, about their following experience in this blind trip; frustrated during completing hard tasks; dangerous when hear the sound of driving cars closely; helpless when no response to their asking for help; hopeful when get help from strangers and hear the sound of sea. The purpose of this structure is to make viewers feel frustrated first, and then they will be more eager to see the beautiful scenery clearly. 
In the beginning, viewer will feel their view gradually becomes dark, and notice the start of their blind trip. After going outside the room, the views are becoming extremely unclear. The stairs are shaking, the buildings are incomplete, and the text on the sign is unreadable. All of these unclear views are intended to make viewer experience the world in the mind of (partially) blind people, and viewers are expected to feel frustrated when they are trying to complete these hard tasks. All of these difficulties are what blind people could really suffer in their life. 
From the fifth scene, the view is becoming totally dark, and viewers will experience the night view of blind people, from which viewers are expected to feel more frustrated and even helpless. The sound of driving cars makes them feel dangerous, and no response to their asking for help makes them feel helpless. 
After asking for help several times, there is a woman’s voice appearing, and this let viewers feel hope. Under her help, viewer go across the street safely. Meanwhile, this also arouses viewer’s sympathy for the experience of blind people, and understand how hard their lives are, and they always need help in real life. 
In the last scene, before viewers choosing to open their eyes, the gentle sound of sea and wind also let viewer be eager to see the scenery. When the night scenery of sea and moon gradually appears, it satisfies their eagerness to see the scenery, and also let viewers understand that is the end of their blind trip. 

4. How I ensure the consistency of different scenes
For this kind of storytelling art work, there are some switches of scenes, where viewers could feel like jumping from one scene to another. To avoid this feel and improve the consistency of this art work, I created some connections between different scenes. From the first scene to the second one, the view of downstairs in the second scene is also in the first scene, as the view outside the door. Therefore, viewer will feel the first and second scenes are connected. Besides, in the second, third and forth scenes, there is always the same pair of shoes appearing in them, so that viewer can feel they are always in the same role. 

5. After viewers leave the gallery
After viewers experience their blind trip, they are expected to understand that the auditory sense will be much more sensitive if the visual sense is lost. Besides, they are also expected to increase their sympathy for the experience of blind people, and have awareness to help blind people in the future. Maybe in the future, when they meet a blind people on the street, they will be more willing to help them cross the street. 

